In this video we're going to go ahead
and download and install IntelliJ IDEA
for a Mac computer. Now if you're running
Windows or Linux, you want to check out
the videos that were put together for
each operating system in this section of
the course and that's because the
process is slightly different on those
platforms, but if you're on a Mac
this is the video for you to watch.
So I'm going to start out by going to www
dot brains dot com. And JetBrains is the company
that to actually create this IntelliJ
IDEA product which we're going to be
using in this course. Once you get there,
if you see IntelliJ IDEA is showing on
the screen, you can click it there
alternatively come over here to IDs and
select IntelliJ IDEA,
either way will get you to the same page
and next we're gonna click on download,
because that's obviously what we want to,
do download and then install this tool.
Now there's two options here and what
I'm going to do is I'm going to start
the download for the Community Edition
and then while that's downloading, we'll
come back and have a chat about
other two options we've got here,
so I'll just wait for that to start and
I'll just put that or have that
downloading and we click on back and I
want to go through a few options here
because we've got an Ultimate Edition
and a Community Edition and you saw me
download the Community Edition and
that's actually the free version of this
tool, if you download and use that
version, you'll never need to pay
anything for it but Jetbrains, the makers
of IntelliJ IDEA also have an Ultimate
Edition with a free trial, which you can
try it for 30 days and the only reason
that you choose the Ultimate Edition is
it's got a lot more power and it
supports a lot more things, you can see
that both versions do have a lot of
things in common, but some of the
advanced things can only work with the
ultimate product so it's up to you, the
Community Edition will certainly work
fine if you want to take advantage of a
30 day trial
click on download here so choose
whichever version you want to choose and
then download it, you can see in my case
that I've downloaded the Community
Edition and it's actually now finished
in the bottom left hand corner, so I'm going
to go and click on that to open it
depending on your browser, you may need
to navigate to the folder
it was downloaded and then open that
file to start the installation process.
Okay and you can see that it's pretty
simple I just need to drag this over
into the Applications folder and give
them a moment to start, you can see that
it's installing there that's actually
installed, so I'm going to close that
down I'm also going to close the other
browser now because we're finished with
that and what I'm going to do then is
open that product, so I'm going to go to
my finder, open a new window go in to
applications and actually want to close
down this as well because we've actually
finished with the installation
process and go back to applications,
so we downloaded the most recent
version was the IntelliJ IDEA CE
which is Community Edition, so I'm going to
double click that because that's the one
I've just downloaded, in any event you'll
click on the relevant one that you
downloaded which will probably only have
the one on your computer and then it
gets verified and then we just need to
go through a few configuration options
before we're able to take advantage and
use IntelliJ IDEA, I'm gonna close down
the finder window for now.
Eventually you get this message, do we
want to open it? We can see that it's
been downloaded from www.jetbrains.com, so we can click on
okay. Now, depending on your installation
you may or may not see this, this is an
option now for you to select whether you
want to install the or import rather the
settings from another installation
of IntelliJ IDEA or most likely you
haven't used this tool before in which
case the default option here do not
import settings will be correct but if
you do see another option there and you
do want to, you can select that and that
will basically import the settings from
another installation, so that you don't
have to enter them all again. In my case,
I was just going to click on or have
selected which is the default option do
not import settings and click ok. Now we
get through a process a wizard process
now we need to go through and just
select a few things now the first thing
is the UI theme, so we can choose whether
we want to white background or a dark
background or a sort of a dark theme,
I'm going to leave the white theme, the white
background selected but you choose
whichever one appeals to you, noting that
you can always change this down the
bottom it says preferences,
appearance and behavior, appearance so
you can go back and do that at a later
time if you want to change it, we click
on next. Now you get this option before
and usually the option you want to
select is this one on the left hand side
here, I've never used IDE and that's
just kind of set up the Mac OSX Mac
keymaps which is probably correct for
most people, so when they click on next
we've got an option here to create a
launcher script, now this is if you ever
wanted to use IntelliJ from the command line,
probably it's not something you do
very often, but things how we're going
through the installation process let's
click that anyway and if we want to use
that in the future, we can do that click
on next if you know where I've got a
list here or presented with various
options for various extra plugins that
we can install for IntelliJ IDEA.
The thing is you can come back and do these
at any time, so I'm not going to select
any at this point but if there's
something there that appeals to you and
that you want to install this is the
place where you can actually go ahead
and do that and you can also disable
some tools as well that they are
installed, but I would generally
recommend you just leave everything as is,
noting that you can come back and
changes later if you do decide to and
one other thing to keep in mind is if
you're running the or I've selected the
ultimate edition, its probably going to be
more options here different plugins so
the screen might look a little bit
different and that's because of the
extra functionality that the Ultimate
Edition gives you, in my case I'm gonna
click on next without changing anything
and we've got a couple of other options
there to download some other featured
plugins, we don't need them in this
course so I'm just going to click on
start using IntelliJ IDEA it'll ask you
for password so just type in your
password and that will now start
IntelliJ IDEA. Alright, so this point
we've started IntelliJ but we've got a
couple of other configuration options we
need to do and the first one is we need
to define the Java development kit or
configure that, we can click on that or
select that by clicking on configure,
clicking on project defaults and then
choosing project structure, once we do
that we get this screen and if you don't
see project SDKs selected you might need
to make sure that you've actually down
here you've clicked on project because
if you clicked on another option in the
past or something you may not see it but
clicking your project will show that
again you can see at the moment it's
showing that project SDK, in fact there
isn't an SDK so what we need to do is
associate the Java development kit that
we've installed in a previous video
with IntelliJ so that IntelliJ can use
that from programming, so to do that we
just click on new and select JDK
now generally speaking when we do that,
it will automatically find the Java
development kit that has been downloaded,
that we downloaded previously and if you
have a look there in the path, you can
see that there's the Java development
kit data that we downloaded in a
previous video downloaded and installed
I didn't need to do anything, then some
macs you might find that it won't
automatically find that for some reason,
if that's the case that's actually the path
there, you can see on the screen there
that would be where you'd go, you never
get to library Java, Java virtual
machines and you'd make sure the Java
development kit was selected the JDK,
making sure you haven't selected a JRE
which is also an option then you go to
the content the home folder, once you do
that, that's all you need to do and IntelliJ
can do the rest, but in my case as you
saw it automatically found it so
chances are good that it will do the
same for you and your Mac, click on open
and you can see now we have got an SDK
configured and if it's not selected for
some reason, make sure that it is
selected there, the other thing to do
here is to make sure that SDK default is
selected it is by default and that's
version 8, you can see that's selected
there we don't need to do anything
because that's the correct option,
so once we've done that we can click on ok,
we've now configured our Java
development kit then there's just a few
other settings that I recommend you go
ahead and configure before we finish the
video, so to do that click on configure
and click on preferences, the next thing
we want to do is come down here to
editor, expand their option and then come
down here to general and expand an
option as well, try auto import first
select that option we want to go ahead
and click on the check box for add
ambiguous imports on the fly and
optimize imports on the fly, select both
of those and then let's make the coding
a little bit easier and you'll see that
in action as we go through the course
click on ok.
actually I'll click on apply, because
I need to go back and go to appearance
click on that the other thing is to
check to make sure he's activated always
enabled its shown line numbers, so you
can see in my case that show line
numbers is checked and we want to do
that because that makes it a little
bit easier when you're programming to
see which line number you're on, so that's selected
click on ok. Alright, so at this point
we've now finished with the installation
and configuration of IntelliJ IDEA.
Let's move on to the next video.